docs/01-app/03-api-reference/06-cli/create-next-app.mdx, before:

---
title: create-next-app
description: Create Next.js apps using one command with the create-next-app CLI.
---

{/* The content of this doc is shared between the app and pages router. You can use the `<PagesOnly>Content</PagesOnly>` component to add content that is specific to the Pages Router. Any shared content should not be wrapped in a component. */}

The `create-next-app` CLI allow you to create a new Next.js application using the default template or an [example](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples) from a public GitHub repository. It is the easiest way to get started with Next.js.

Basic usage:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx create-next-app@latest [project-name] [options]
```

## Reference

The following options are available:

| Options                                 | Description                                                           |
| --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `-h` or `--help`                        | Show all available options                                            |
| `-v` or `--version`                     | Output the version number                                             |
| `--no-*`                                | Negate default options. E.g. `--no-ts`                                |
| `--ts` or `--typescript`                | Initialize as a TypeScript project (default)                          |
| `--js` or `--javascript`                | Initialize as a JavaScript project                                    |
| `--tailwind`                            | Initialize with Tailwind CSS config (default)                         |
| `--eslint`                              | Initialize with ESLint config                                         |
| `--biome`                               | Initialize with Biome config                                          |
| `--no-linter`                           | Skip linter configuration                                             |
| `--app`                                 | Initialize as an App Router project                                   |
| `--api`                                 | Initialize a project with only route handlers                         |
| `--src-dir`                             | Initialize inside a `src/` directory                                  |
| `--turbopack`                           | Force enable Turbopack in generated package.json (enabled by default) |
| `--webpack`                             | Force enable Webpack in generated package.json                        |
| `--import-alias <alias-to-configure>`   | Specify import alias to use (default "@/\*")                          |
| `--empty`                               | Initialize an empty project                                           |
| `--use-npm`                             | Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the application using npm        |
| `--use-pnpm`                            | Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the application using pnpm       |
| `--use-yarn`                            | Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the application using Yarn       |
| `--use-bun`                             | Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the application using Bun        |
| `-e` or `--example [name] [github-url]` | An example to bootstrap the app with                                  |
| `--example-path <path-to-example>`      | Specify the path to the example separately                            |
| `--reset-preferences`                   | Explicitly tell the CLI to reset any stored preferences               |
| `--skip-install`                        | Explicitly tell the CLI to skip installing packages                   |
| `--disable-git`                         | Explicitly tell the CLI to disable git initialization                 |
| `--yes`                                 | Use previous preferences or defaults for all options                  |

## Examples

### With the default template

To create a new app using the default template, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx create-next-app@latest
```

You will then be asked the following prompts:

```txt filename="Terminal"
What is your project named?  my-app
Would you like to use TypeScript?  No / Yes
Which linter would you like to use?  ESLint / Biome / None
Would you like to use Tailwind CSS?  No / Yes
Would you like your code inside a `src/` directory?  No / Yes
Would you like to use App Router? (recommended)  No / Yes
Would you like to use Turbopack? (recommended)  No / Yes
Would you like to customize the import alias (`@/*` by default)?  No / Yes
```

### Linter Options

**ESLint**: The traditional and most popular JavaScript linter. Includes Next.js-specific rules from `@next/eslint-plugin-next`.

**Biome**: A fast, modern linter and formatter that combines the functionality of ESLint and Prettier. Includes built-in Next.js and React domain support for optimal performance.

**None**: Skip linter configuration entirely. You can always add a linter later.

Once you've answered the prompts, a new project will be created with your chosen configuration.

### With an official Next.js example

To create a new app using an official Next.js example, use the `--example` flag. For example:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx create-next-app@latest --example [example-name] [your-project-name]
```

You can view a list of all available examples along with setup instructions in the [Next.js repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples).

### With any public GitHub example

To create a new app using any public GitHub example, use the `--example` option with the GitHub repo's URL. For example:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx create-next-app@latest --example "https://github.com/.../" [your-project-name]
```

Commit message:

docs: create-next-app react-compiler and new prompts (#85213)
update the create-next-app options and prompts

docs/01-app/03-api-reference/06-cli/create-next-app.mdx, after:

---
title: create-next-app
description: Create Next.js apps using one command with the create-next-app CLI.
---

{/* The content of this doc is shared between the app and pages router. You can use the `<PagesOnly>Content</PagesOnly>` component to add content that is specific to the Pages Router. Any shared content should not be wrapped in a component. */}

The `create-next-app` CLI allow you to create a new Next.js application using the default template or an [example](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples) from a public GitHub repository. It is the easiest way to get started with Next.js.

Basic usage:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx create-next-app@latest [project-name] [options]
```

## Reference

The following options are available:

| Options                                 | Description                                                           |
| --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `-h` or `--help`                        | Show all available options                                            |
| `-v` or `--version`                     | Output the version number                                             |
| `--no-*`                                | Negate default options. E.g. `--no-ts`                                |
| `--ts` or `--typescript`                | Initialize as a TypeScript project (default)                          |
| `--js` or `--javascript`                | Initialize as a JavaScript project                                    |
| `--tailwind`                            | Initialize with Tailwind CSS config (default)                         |
| `--react-compiler`                      | Initialize with React Compiler enabled                                |
| `--eslint`                              | Initialize with ESLint config                                         |
| `--biome`                               | Initialize with Biome config                                          |
| `--no-linter`                           | Skip linter configuration                                             |
| `--app`                                 | Initialize as an App Router project                                   |
| `--api`                                 | Initialize a project with only route handlers                         |
| `--src-dir`                             | Initialize inside a `src/` directory                                  |
| `--turbopack`                           | Force enable Turbopack in generated package.json (enabled by default) |
| `--webpack`                             | Force enable Webpack in generated package.json                        |
| `--import-alias <alias-to-configure>`   | Specify import alias to use (default "@/\*")                          |
| `--empty`                               | Initialize an empty project                                           |
| `--use-npm`                             | Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the application using npm        |
| `--use-pnpm`                            | Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the application using pnpm       |
| `--use-yarn`                            | Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the application using Yarn       |
| `--use-bun`                             | Explicitly tell the CLI to bootstrap the application using Bun        |
| `-e` or `--example [name] [github-url]` | An example to bootstrap the app with                                  |
| `--example-path <path-to-example>`      | Specify the path to the example separately                            |
| `--reset-preferences`                   | Explicitly tell the CLI to reset any stored preferences               |
| `--skip-install`                        | Explicitly tell the CLI to skip installing packages                   |
| `--disable-git`                         | Explicitly tell the CLI to disable git initialization                 |
| `--yes`                                 | Use previous preferences or defaults for all options                  |

## Examples

### With the default template

To create a new app using the default template, run the following command in your terminal:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx create-next-app@latest
```

On installation, you'll see the following prompts:

```txt filename="Terminal"
What is your project named? my-app
Would you like to use the recommended Next.js defaults?
    Yes, use recommended defaults - TypeScript, ESLint, Tailwind CSS, App Router, Turbopack
    No, reuse previous settings
    No, customize settings - Choose your own preferences
```

If you choose to `customize settings`, you'll see the following prompts:

```txt filename="Terminal"
Would you like to use TypeScript? No / Yes
Which linter would you like to use? ESLint / Biome / None
Would you like to use React Compiler? No / Yes
Would you like to use Tailwind CSS? No / Yes
Would you like your code inside a `src/` directory? No / Yes
Would you like to use App Router? (recommended) No / Yes
Would you like to use Turbopack? (recommended) No / Yes
Would you like to customize the import alias (`@/*` by default)? No / Yes
What import alias would you like configured? @/*
```

After the prompts, `create-next-app` will create a folder with your project name and install the required dependencies.

### Linter Options

**ESLint**: The traditional and most popular JavaScript linter. Includes Next.js-specific rules from `@next/eslint-plugin-next`.

**Biome**: A fast, modern linter and formatter that combines the functionality of ESLint and Prettier. Includes built-in Next.js and React domain support for optimal performance.

**None**: Skip linter configuration entirely. You can always add a linter later.

Once you've answered the prompts, a new project will be created with your chosen configuration.

### With an official Next.js example

To create a new app using an official Next.js example, use the `--example` flag. For example:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx create-next-app@latest --example [example-name] [your-project-name]
```

You can view a list of all available examples along with setup instructions in the [Next.js repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples).

### With any public GitHub example

To create a new app using any public GitHub example, use the `--example` option with the GitHub repo's URL. For example:

```bash filename="Terminal"
npx create-next-app@latest --example "https://github.com/.../" [your-project-name]
```
