errors/next-prerender-dynamic-metadata.mdx, before:

---
title: Cannot access Request information or uncached data in `generateMetadata()` in an otherwise entirely static route
---

## Why This Error Occurred

When `cacheComponents` is enabled, Next.js requires that `generateMetadata()` not depend on uncached data or Request data unless some other part of the page also has similar requirements. The reason for this is that while you normally control your intention for what is allowed to be dynamic by adding or removing Suspense boundaries in your Layout and Page components you are not in control of rendering metadata itself.

The heuristic Next.js uses to understand your intent with `generateMetadata()` is to look at the data requirements of the rest of the route. If other components depend on Request data or uncached data, then we allow `generateMetadata()` to have similar data requirements. If the rest of your page has no dependence on this type of data, we require that `generateMetadata()` also not have this type of data dependence.

## Possible Ways to Fix It

To fix this issue, you must first determine your goal for the affected route.

### Caching External Data

If your metadata does not depend on any request data, then it may be possible for you to indicate that the data is cacheable, which would allow Next.js to include it in the prerender for this route. Consider using `"use cache"` to mark the function producing the external data as cacheable.

Before:

```jsx filename="app/.../page.tsx"
import { cms } from './cms'

export async function generateMetadata() {
  // This data lookup is not cached at the moment so
  // Next.js will interpret this as needing to be rendered
  // on every request.
  const { title } = await cms.getPageData('/.../page')
  return {
    title,
  }
}

async function getPageText() {
  'use cache'
  const { text } = await cms.getPageData('/.../page')
  return text
}

export default async function Page() {
  // This text is cached so the main content of this route
  // is prerenderable.
  const text = await getPageText()
  return <article>{text}</article>
}
```

After:

```jsx filename="app/.../page.tsx"
import { cms } from './cms'

export async function generateMetadata() {
  // By marking this function as cacheable, Next.js
  // can now include it in the prerender for this route.
  'use cache'
  const { title } = await cms.getPageData('/.../page')
  return {
    title,
  }
}

async function getPageText() {
  'use cache'
  const { text } = await cms.getPageData('/.../page')
  return text
}

export default async function Page() {
  // This text is cached so the main content of this route
  // is prerenderable.
  const text = await getPageText()
  return <article>{text}</article>
}
```

### If you must access Request Data or your external data is uncacheable

If your metadata requires Request data or depends on external data which is not cacheable then Next.js will need to render this page dynamically on every request. However if you got this error, the rest of your page is able to be completely static. This is generally pretty rare, but if this is your actual constraint, you can indicate to Next.js that the page should be allowed to be dynamic by rendering any other component that is dynamic. Since your route doesn't have any genuine need for Request data, you can indicate an intentional dependency on a Request with `await connection()`. This is like telling Next.js that this component is never prerenderable and must be rendered on every user request.

Before:

```jsx filename="app/.../page.tsx"
import { cookies } from 'next/headers'
import { getPersonalizedTitle } from './my-api'

export async function generateMetadata() {
  // In this example, we are assuming we must fetch our title
  // from a protected external API. While the response is potentially
  // cacheable, the it still requires accessing a token from the Request cookies.
  const token = (await cookies()).get('token')
  const response = await getPersonalizedTitle(token)
  return {
    title: getTitle(response),
  }
}

export default function Page() {
  return <article>This article is completely static</article>
}
```

After:

```jsx filename="app/.../page.tsx"
import { Suspense } from 'react'
import { cookies } from 'next/headers'
import { connection } from 'next/server'

export async function generateMetadata() {
  const token = (await cookies()).get('token')
  const response = await fetch(..., { headers: { Authorization: token } })
  return {
    title: getTitle(response),
  }
}

async function DynamicMarker() {
  // This component renders nothing, but it will always
  // be dynamic because it waits for an actual connection.
  const Connection = async () => {
    await connection()
    return null
  }
  return (
    <Suspense>
      <Connection />
    </Suspense>
  )
}

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <>
      <article>This article is completely static</article>
      {/* Rendering this DynamicMarker component tells Next.js that
          this Page has some dynamic content. */}
      <DynamicMarker />
    </>
  )
}
```

Note: The reason to structure this `DynamicMarker` as a self-contained Suspense boundary is to avoid blocking the actual content of the page from being prerendered. When Partial Prerendering is enabled alongside `cacheComponents`, the static shell will still contain all of the prerenderable content, and only the metadata will stream in dynamically.

## Useful Links

- [`generateMetadata()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-metadata)
- [`connection()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/connection)
- [`cookies()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cookies)
- [`"use cache"`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache)

Commit message:

[Cache Components] Discriminate static shell validation errors by type (#85747)
Prior to this change any "hole" in a prerender that would block the
shell was considered an error and you would be presented with a very
generic message explaining all the different ways you could have failed
this validation check.

With this change we use a new technique to validate the static shell
which can now tell the difference between waiting on uncached data or
runtime data. It also improves the heuristics around generateMetadata
and generateViewport errors.

Added new error pages for runtime sync IO and ensure we only validate
sync IO after runtime data if the page will be validating runtime
prefetches.

Restored the validation on HMR update so you can get feedback after
saving a new file.

---

We've also discovered that hanging inputs are not handled correctly.
Fixing this is non-trivial and will be done in a follow-up, so for now,
we're disabling the failing tests.

---------

Co-authored-by: Josh Story <story@hey.com>
Co-authored-by: Hendrik Liebau <mail@hendrik-liebau.de>

errors/next-prerender-dynamic-metadata.mdx, after:

---
title: Cannot access Runtime data or uncached data in `generateMetadata()` or file-based Metadata in an otherwise entirely static route
---

## Why This Error Occurred

When `cacheComponents` is enabled, Next.js requires that Document Metadata not depend on uncached data or Runtime data (`cookies()`, `headers()`, `params`, `searchParams`) unless some other part of the page also has similar requirements.

Next.js determines if a page is entirely static or partially static by looking at whether any part of the page cannot be prerendered.

Typically you control the which parts of a page can be prerendered by adding `"use cache"` to Components or data functions and by avoiding Runtime data like `cookies()` or `searchParams`. However, Metadata can be defined in functions (`generateMetadata()`) defined far from your Page content. Additionally Metadata can implicitly depend on Runtime data when using file-based Metadata such as an icon inside a route with a dynamic param. It would be easy for Metadata to accidentally make an otherwise entirely static page have a dynamic component.

To prevent anwanted partially dynamic pages, Next.js expects pages that are otherwise entirely prerenderable to also have prerenderable Metadata.

## Possible Ways to Fix It

To fix this issue, you must first determine your goal for the affected route.

### Caching External Data

If your metadata does not depend on any request data, then it may be possible for you to indicate that the data is cacheable, which would allow Next.js to include it in the prerender for this route. Consider using `"use cache"` to mark the function producing the external data as cacheable.

Before:

```jsx filename="app/.../page.tsx"
import { cms } from './cms'

export async function generateMetadata() {
  // This data lookup is not cached at the moment so
  // Next.js will interpret this as needing to be rendered
  // on every request.
  const { title } = await cms.getPageData('/.../page')
  return {
    title,
  }
}

async function getPageText() {
  'use cache'
  const { text } = await cms.getPageData('/.../page')
  return text
}

export default async function Page() {
  // This text is cached so the main content of this route
  // is prerenderable.
  const text = await getPageText()
  return <article>{text}</article>
}
```

After:

```jsx filename="app/.../page.tsx"
import { cms } from './cms'

export async function generateMetadata() {
  // By marking this function as cacheable, Next.js
  // can now include it in the prerender for this route.
  'use cache'
  const { title } = await cms.getPageData('/.../page')
  return {
    title,
  }
}

async function getPageText() {
  'use cache'
  const { text } = await cms.getPageData('/.../page')
  return text
}

export default async function Page() {
  // This text is cached so the main content of this route
  // is prerenderable.
  const text = await getPageText()
  return <article>{text}</article>
}
```

### If you must access Request Data or your external data is uncacheable

If your metadata requires Request data or depends on external data which is not cacheable then Next.js will need to render this page dynamically on every request. However if you got this error, the rest of your page is able to be completely static. This is generally pretty rare, but if this is your actual constraint, you can indicate to Next.js that the page should be allowed to be dynamic by rendering any other component that is dynamic. Since your route doesn't have any genuine need for Request data, you can indicate an intentional dependency on a Request with `await connection()`. This is like telling Next.js that this component is never prerenderable and must be rendered on every user request.

Before:

```jsx filename="app/.../page.tsx"
import { cookies } from 'next/headers'
import { getPersonalizedTitle } from './my-api'

export async function generateMetadata() {
  // In this example, we are assuming we must fetch our title
  // from a protected external API. While the response is potentially
  // cacheable, the it still requires accessing a token from the Request cookies.
  const token = (await cookies()).get('token')
  const response = await getPersonalizedTitle(token)
  return {
    title: getTitle(response),
  }
}

export default function Page() {
  return <article>This article is completely static</article>
}
```

After:

```jsx filename="app/.../page.tsx"
import { Suspense } from 'react'
import { cookies } from 'next/headers'
import { connection } from 'next/server'

export async function generateMetadata() {
  const token = (await cookies()).get('token')
  const response = await fetch(..., { headers: { Authorization: token } })
  return {
    title: getTitle(response),
  }
}

async function DynamicMarker() {
  // This component renders nothing, but it will always
  // be dynamic because it waits for an actual connection.
  const Connection = async () => {
    await connection()
    return null
  }
  return (
    <Suspense>
      <Connection />
    </Suspense>
  )
}

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <>
      <article>This article is completely static</article>
      {/* Rendering this DynamicMarker component tells Next.js that
          this Page has some dynamic content. */}
      <DynamicMarker />
    </>
  )
}
```

Note: The reason to structure this `DynamicMarker` as a self-contained Suspense boundary is to avoid blocking the actual content of the page from being prerendered.

## Useful Links

- [`generateMetadata()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-metadata)
- [`connection()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/connection)
- [`cookies()`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cookies)
- [`"use cache"`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache)
