docs/01-app/03-api-reference/01-directives/use-cache.mdx, before:

---
title: use cache
description: Learn how to use the use cache directive to cache data in your Next.js application.
related:
  title: Related
  description: View related API references.
  links:
    - app/api-reference/directives/use-cache-private
    - app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/cacheComponents
    - app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/cacheLife
    - app/api-reference/functions/cacheTag
    - app/api-reference/functions/cacheLife
    - app/api-reference/functions/revalidateTag
---

The `use cache` directive allows you to mark a route, React component, or a function as cacheable. It can be used at the top of a file to indicate that all exports in the file should be cached, or inline at the top of function or component to cache the return value.

> **Good to know:** For caching user-specific content that requires access to cookies or headers, see [`'use cache: private'`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache-private).

## Usage

`use cache` is a Cache Components feature. To enable it, add the [`cacheComponents`](/docs/app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/cacheComponents) option to your `next.config.ts` file:

```ts filename="next.config.ts" switcher
import type { NextConfig } from 'next'

const nextConfig: NextConfig = {
  cacheComponents: true,
}

export default nextConfig
```

```js filename="next.config.js" switcher
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  cacheComponents: true,
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

Then, add `use cache` at the file, component, or function level:

```tsx
// File level
'use cache'

export default async function Page() {
  // ...
}

// Component level
export async function MyComponent() {
  'use cache'
  return <></>
}

// Function level
export async function getData() {
  'use cache'
  const data = await fetch('/api/data')
  return data
}
```

## How `use cache` works

### Cache keys

A cache entry's key is generated using a serialized version of its inputs, which includes:

- Build ID (generated for each build)
- Function ID (a secure identifier unique to the function)
- The [serializable](https://react.dev/reference/rsc/use-server#serializable-parameters-and-return-values) function arguments (or props).

The arguments passed to the cached function, as well as any values it reads from the parent scope automatically become a part of the key. This means, the same cache entry will be reused as long as its inputs are the same.

## Non-serializable arguments

Any non-serializable arguments, props, or closed-over values will turn into references inside the cached function, and can be only passed through and not inspected nor modified. These non-serializable values will be filled in at the request time and won't become a part of the cache key.

For example, a cached function can take in JSX as a `children` prop and return `<div>{children}</div>`, but it won't be able to introspect the actual `children` object. This allows you to nest uncached content inside a cached component.

```tsx filename="app/ui/cached-component.tsx" switcher
function CachedComponent({ children }: { children: ReactNode }) {
  'use cache'
  return <div>{children}</div>
}
```

```jsx filename="app/ui/cached-component.js" switcher
function CachedComponent({ children }) {
  'use cache'
  return <div>{children}</div>
}
```

## Return values

The return value of the cacheable function must be serializable. This ensures that the cached data can be stored and retrieved correctly.

## `use cache` at build time

When used at the top of a [layout](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/layout) or [page](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/page), the route segment will be prerendered, allowing it to later be [revalidated](#during-revalidation).

This means `use cache` cannot be used with [runtime data](/docs/app/getting-started/cache-components#1-suspense-for-runtime-data) like `cookies` or `headers`.

> **Note:** If you need to cache content that depends on cookies, headers, or search params, use [`'use cache: private'`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache-private) instead.

## `use cache` at runtime

On the **server**, the cache entries of individual components or functions will be cached in-memory.

Then, on the **client**, any content returned from the server cache will be stored in the browser's memory for the duration of the session or until [revalidated](#during-revalidation).

## During revalidation

By default, `use cache` has server-side revalidation period of **15 minutes**. While this period may be useful for content that doesn't require frequent updates, you can use the `cacheLife` and `cacheTag` APIs to configure when the individual cache entries should be revalidated.

- [`cacheLife`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cacheLife): Configure the cache entry lifetime.
- [`cacheTag`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cacheTag): Create tags for on-demand revalidation.

Both of these APIs integrate across the client and server caching layers, meaning you can configure your caching semantics in one place and have them apply everywhere.

See the [`cacheLife`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cacheLife) and [`cacheTag`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cacheTag) API docs for more information.

## Examples

### Caching an entire route with `use cache`

To prerender an entire route, add `use cache` to the top of **both** the `layout` and `page` files. Each of these segments are treated as separate entry points in your application, and will be cached independently.

```tsx filename="app/layout.tsx" switcher
'use cache'

export default function Layout({ children }: { children: ReactNode }) {
  return <div>{children}</div>
}
```

```jsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
'use cache'

export default function Layout({ children }) {
  return <div>{children}</div>
}
```

Any components imported and nested in `page` file are part of the cache output associated with the `page`.

```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
'use cache'

async function Users() {
  const users = await fetch('/api/users')
  // loop through users
}

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <main>
      <Users />
    </main>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/page.js" switcher
'use cache'

async function Users() {
  const users = await fetch('/api/users')
  // loop through users
}

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <main>
      <Users />
    </main>
  )
}
```

> **Good to know**:
>
> - If `use cache` is added only to the `layout` or the `page`, only that route segment and any components imported into it will be cached.
> - If any of the nested children in the route use [Dynamic APIs](/docs/app/guides/caching#dynamic-rendering), then the route will opt out of pre-rendering.

### Caching a component's output with `use cache`

You can use `use cache` at the component level to cache any fetches or computations performed within that component. The cache entry will be reused as long as the serialized props produce the same value in each instance.

```tsx filename="app/components/bookings.tsx" highlight={2} switcher
export async function Bookings({ type = 'haircut' }: BookingsProps) {
  'use cache'
  async function getBookingsData() {
    const data = await fetch(`/api/bookings?type=${encodeURIComponent(type)}`)
    return data
  }
  return //...
}

interface BookingsProps {
  type: string
}
```

```jsx filename="app/components/bookings.js" highlight={2} switcher
export async function Bookings({ type = 'haircut' }) {
  'use cache'
  async function getBookingsData() {
    const data = await fetch(`/api/bookings?type=${encodeURIComponent(type)}`)
    return data
  }
  return //...
}
```

### Caching function output with `use cache`

Since you can add `use cache` to any asynchronous function, you aren't limited to caching components or routes only. You might want to cache a network request, a database query, or a slow computation.

```tsx filename="app/actions.ts" highlight={2} switcher
export async function getData() {
  'use cache'

  const data = await fetch('/api/data')
  return data
}
```

```jsx filename="app/actions.js" highlight={2} switcher
export async function getData() {
  'use cache'

  const data = await fetch('/api/data')
  return data
}
```

### Interleaving

In React, composition with `children` or slots is a well-known pattern for building flexible components. When using `use cache`, you can continue to compose your UI in this way. Anything included as `children`, or other compositional slots, in the returned JSX will be passed through the cached component without affecting its cache entry.

As long as you don't directly reference any of the JSX slots inside the body of the cacheable function itself, their presence in the returned output won't affect the cache entry.

```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
export default async function Page() {
  const uncachedData = await getData()
  return (
    // Pass compositional slots as props, e.g. header and children
    <CacheComponent header={<h1>Home</h1>}>
      {/* DynamicComponent is provided as the children slot */}
      <DynamicComponent data={uncachedData} />
    </CacheComponent>
  )
}

async function CacheComponent({
  header, // header: a compositional slot, injected as a prop
  children, // children: another slot for nested composition
}: {
  header: ReactNode
  children: ReactNode
}) {
  'use cache'
  const cachedData = await fetch('/api/cached-data')
  return (
    <div>
      {header}
      <PrerenderedComponent data={cachedData} />
      {children}
    </div>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/page.js" switcher
export default async function Page() {
  const uncachedData = await getData()
  return (
    // Pass compositional slots as props, e.g. header and children
    <CacheComponent header={<h1>Home</h1>}>
      {/* DynamicComponent is provided as the children slot */}
      <DynamicComponent data={uncachedData} />
    </CacheComponent>
  )
}

async function CacheComponent({
  header, // header: a compositional slot, injected as a prop
  children, // children: another slot for nested composition
}) {
  'use cache'
  const cachedData = await fetch('/api/cached-data')
  return (
    <div>
      {header}
      <PrerenderedComponent data={cachedData} />
      {children}
    </div>
  )
}
```

You can also pass Server Actions through cached components to Client Components without invoking them inside the cacheable function.

```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
import ClientComponent from './ClientComponent'

export default async function Page() {
  const performUpdate = async () => {
    'use server'
    // Perform some server-side update
    await db.update(...)
  }

  return <CacheComponent performUpdate={performUpdate} />
}

async function CachedComponent({
  performUpdate,
}: {
  performUpdate: () => Promise<void>
}) {
  'use cache'
  // Do not call performUpdate here
  return <ClientComponent action={performUpdate} />
}
```

```jsx filename="app/page.js" switcher
import ClientComponent from './ClientComponent'

export default async function Page() {
  const performUpdate = async () => {
    'use server'
    // Perform some server-side update
    await db.update(...)
  }

  return <CacheComponent performUpdate={performUpdate} />
}

async function CachedComponent({ performUpdate }) {
  'use cache'
  // Do not call performUpdate here
  return <ClientComponent action={performUpdate} />
}
```

```tsx filename="app/ClientComponent.tsx" switcher
'use client'

export default function ClientComponent({
  action,
}: {
  action: () => Promise<void>
}) {
  return <button onClick={action}>Update</button>
}
```

```jsx filename="app/ClientComponent.js" switcher
'use client'

export default function ClientComponent({ action }) {
  return <button onClick={action}>Update</button>
}
```

## Platform Support

| Deployment Option                                                   | Supported         |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| [Node.js server](/docs/app/getting-started/deploying#nodejs-server) | Yes               |
| [Docker container](/docs/app/getting-started/deploying#docker)      | Yes               |
| [Static export](/docs/app/getting-started/deploying#static-export)  | No                |
| [Adapters](/docs/app/getting-started/deploying#adapters)            | Platform-specific |

Learn how to [configure caching](/docs/app/guides/self-hosting#caching-and-isr) when self-hosting Next.js.

## Version History

| Version   | Changes                                                     |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `v16.0.0` | `"use cache"` is enabled with the Cache Components feature. |
| `v15.0.0` | `"use cache"` is introduced as an experimental feature.     |

Commit message:

docs: point out diff in serialization types for arguments and return values (#85338)
Answers, how come I can return JSX from cache components?

docs/01-app/03-api-reference/01-directives/use-cache.mdx, after:

---
title: use cache
description: Learn how to use the use cache directive to cache data in your Next.js application.
related:
  title: Related
  description: View related API references.
  links:
    - app/api-reference/directives/use-cache-private
    - app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/cacheComponents
    - app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/cacheLife
    - app/api-reference/functions/cacheTag
    - app/api-reference/functions/cacheLife
    - app/api-reference/functions/revalidateTag
---

The `use cache` directive allows you to mark a route, React component, or a function as cacheable. It can be used at the top of a file to indicate that all exports in the file should be cached, or inline at the top of function or component to cache the return value.

> **Good to know:** For caching user-specific content that requires access to cookies or headers, see [`'use cache: private'`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache-private).

## Usage

`use cache` is a Cache Components feature. To enable it, add the [`cacheComponents`](/docs/app/api-reference/config/next-config-js/cacheComponents) option to your `next.config.ts` file:

```ts filename="next.config.ts" switcher
import type { NextConfig } from 'next'

const nextConfig: NextConfig = {
  cacheComponents: true,
}

export default nextConfig
```

```js filename="next.config.js" switcher
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  cacheComponents: true,
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

Then, add `use cache` at the file, component, or function level:

```tsx
// File level
'use cache'

export default async function Page() {
  // ...
}

// Component level
export async function MyComponent() {
  'use cache'
  return <></>
}

// Function level
export async function getData() {
  'use cache'
  const data = await fetch('/api/data')
  return data
}
```

## How `use cache` works

### Cache keys

A cache entry's key is generated using a serialized version of its inputs, which includes:

- Build ID (generated for each build)
- Function ID (a secure identifier unique to the function)
- The [serializable](https://react.dev/reference/rsc/use-server#serializable-parameters-and-return-values) function arguments (or props).

The arguments passed to the cached function, as well as any values it reads from the parent scope automatically become a part of the key. This means, the same cache entry will be reused as long as its inputs are the same.

## Non-serializable arguments

Any non-serializable arguments, props, or closed-over values will turn into references inside the cached function, and can be only passed through and not inspected nor modified. These non-serializable values will be filled in at the request time and won't become a part of the cache key.

For example, a cached function can take in JSX as a `children` prop and return `<div>{children}</div>`, but it won't be able to introspect the actual `children` object. This allows you to nest uncached content inside a cached component.

```tsx filename="app/ui/cached-component.tsx" switcher
function CachedComponent({ children }: { children: ReactNode }) {
  'use cache'
  return <div>{children}</div>
}
```

```jsx filename="app/ui/cached-component.js" switcher
function CachedComponent({ children }) {
  'use cache'
  return <div>{children}</div>
}
```

## Return values

The return value of the cacheable function must be serializable props. This ensures that the cached data can be stored and retrieved correctly.

> **Good to know:** The supported types for arguments and the supported types for returned values are **not the same**. For more details, refer to [Serializable Parameters and Return Values](https://react.dev/reference/rsc/use-server#serializable-parameters-and-return-values) for function arguments and [Serializable Types](https://react.dev/reference/rsc/use-client#serializable-types) for return values.

## `use cache` at build time

When used at the top of a [layout](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/layout) or [page](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/page), the route segment will be prerendered, allowing it to later be [revalidated](#during-revalidation).

This means `use cache` cannot be used with [runtime data](/docs/app/getting-started/cache-components#1-suspense-for-runtime-data) like `cookies` or `headers`.

> **Note:** If you need to cache content that depends on cookies, headers, or search params, use [`'use cache: private'`](/docs/app/api-reference/directives/use-cache-private) instead.

## `use cache` at runtime

On the **server**, the cache entries of individual components or functions will be cached in-memory.

Then, on the **client**, any content returned from the server cache will be stored in the browser's memory for the duration of the session or until [revalidated](#during-revalidation).

## During revalidation

By default, `use cache` has server-side revalidation period of **15 minutes**. While this period may be useful for content that doesn't require frequent updates, you can use the `cacheLife` and `cacheTag` APIs to configure when the individual cache entries should be revalidated.

- [`cacheLife`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cacheLife): Configure the cache entry lifetime.
- [`cacheTag`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cacheTag): Create tags for on-demand revalidation.

Both of these APIs integrate across the client and server caching layers, meaning you can configure your caching semantics in one place and have them apply everywhere.

See the [`cacheLife`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cacheLife) and [`cacheTag`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cacheTag) API docs for more information.

## Examples

### Caching an entire route with `use cache`

To pre-render an entire route, add `use cache` to the top of **both** the `layout` and `page` files. Each of these segments are treated as separate entry points in your application, and will be cached independently.

```tsx filename="app/layout.tsx" switcher
'use cache'

export default function Layout({ children }: { children: ReactNode }) {
  return <div>{children}</div>
}
```

```jsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
'use cache'

export default function Layout({ children }) {
  return <div>{children}</div>
}
```

Any components imported and nested in `page` file are part of the cache output associated with the `page`.

```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
'use cache'

async function Users() {
  const users = await fetch('/api/users')
  // loop through users
}

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <main>
      <Users />
    </main>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/page.js" switcher
'use cache'

async function Users() {
  const users = await fetch('/api/users')
  // loop through users
}

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <main>
      <Users />
    </main>
  )
}
```

> **Good to know**:
>
> - If `use cache` is added only to the `layout` or the `page`, only that route segment and any components imported into it will be cached.
> - If any of the nested children in the route use [Dynamic APIs](/docs/app/guides/caching#dynamic-rendering), then the route will opt out of pre-rendering.

### Caching a component's output with `use cache`

You can use `use cache` at the component level to cache any fetches or computations performed within that component. The cache entry will be reused as long as the serialized props produce the same value in each instance.

```tsx filename="app/components/bookings.tsx" highlight={2} switcher
export async function Bookings({ type = 'haircut' }: BookingsProps) {
  'use cache'
  async function getBookingsData() {
    const data = await fetch(`/api/bookings?type=${encodeURIComponent(type)}`)
    return data
  }
  return //...
}

interface BookingsProps {
  type: string
}
```

```jsx filename="app/components/bookings.js" highlight={2} switcher
export async function Bookings({ type = 'haircut' }) {
  'use cache'
  async function getBookingsData() {
    const data = await fetch(`/api/bookings?type=${encodeURIComponent(type)}`)
    return data
  }
  return //...
}
```

### Caching function output with `use cache`

Since you can add `use cache` to any asynchronous function, you aren't limited to caching components or routes only. You might want to cache a network request, a database query, or a slow computation.

```tsx filename="app/actions.ts" highlight={2} switcher
export async function getData() {
  'use cache'

  const data = await fetch('/api/data')
  return data
}
```

```jsx filename="app/actions.js" highlight={2} switcher
export async function getData() {
  'use cache'

  const data = await fetch('/api/data')
  return data
}
```

### Interleaving

In React, composition with `children` or slots is a well-known pattern for building flexible components. When using `use cache`, you can continue to compose your UI in this way. Anything included as `children`, or other compositional slots, in the returned JSX will be passed through the cached component without affecting its cache entry.

As long as you don't directly reference any of the JSX slots inside the body of the cacheable function itself, their presence in the returned output won't affect the cache entry.

```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
export default async function Page() {
  const uncachedData = await getData()
  return (
    // Pass compositional slots as props, e.g. header and children
    <CacheComponent header={<h1>Home</h1>}>
      {/* DynamicComponent is provided as the children slot */}
      <DynamicComponent data={uncachedData} />
    </CacheComponent>
  )
}

async function CacheComponent({
  header, // header: a compositional slot, injected as a prop
  children, // children: another slot for nested composition
}: {
  header: ReactNode
  children: ReactNode
}) {
  'use cache'
  const cachedData = await fetch('/api/cached-data')
  return (
    <div>
      {header}
      <PrerenderedComponent data={cachedData} />
      {children}
    </div>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/page.js" switcher
export default async function Page() {
  const uncachedData = await getData()
  return (
    // Pass compositional slots as props, e.g. header and children
    <CacheComponent header={<h1>Home</h1>}>
      {/* DynamicComponent is provided as the children slot */}
      <DynamicComponent data={uncachedData} />
    </CacheComponent>
  )
}

async function CacheComponent({
  header, // header: a compositional slot, injected as a prop
  children, // children: another slot for nested composition
}) {
  'use cache'
  const cachedData = await fetch('/api/cached-data')
  return (
    <div>
      {header}
      <PrerenderedComponent data={cachedData} />
      {children}
    </div>
  )
}
```

You can also pass Server Actions through cached components to Client Components without invoking them inside the cacheable function.

```tsx filename="app/page.tsx" switcher
import ClientComponent from './ClientComponent'

export default async function Page() {
  const performUpdate = async () => {
    'use server'
    // Perform some server-side update
    await db.update(...)
  }

  return <CacheComponent performUpdate={performUpdate} />
}

async function CachedComponent({
  performUpdate,
}: {
  performUpdate: () => Promise<void>
}) {
  'use cache'
  // Do not call performUpdate here
  return <ClientComponent action={performUpdate} />
}
```

```jsx filename="app/page.js" switcher
import ClientComponent from './ClientComponent'

export default async function Page() {
  const performUpdate = async () => {
    'use server'
    // Perform some server-side update
    await db.update(...)
  }

  return <CacheComponent performUpdate={performUpdate} />
}

async function CachedComponent({ performUpdate }) {
  'use cache'
  // Do not call performUpdate here
  return <ClientComponent action={performUpdate} />
}
```

```tsx filename="app/ClientComponent.tsx" switcher
'use client'

export default function ClientComponent({
  action,
}: {
  action: () => Promise<void>
}) {
  return <button onClick={action}>Update</button>
}
```

```jsx filename="app/ClientComponent.js" switcher
'use client'

export default function ClientComponent({ action }) {
  return <button onClick={action}>Update</button>
}
```

## Platform Support

| Deployment Option                                                   | Supported         |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| [Node.js server](/docs/app/getting-started/deploying#nodejs-server) | Yes               |
| [Docker container](/docs/app/getting-started/deploying#docker)      | Yes               |
| [Static export](/docs/app/getting-started/deploying#static-export)  | No                |
| [Adapters](/docs/app/getting-started/deploying#adapters)            | Platform-specific |

Learn how to [configure caching](/docs/app/guides/self-hosting#caching-and-isr) when self-hosting Next.js.

## Version History

| Version   | Changes                                                     |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `v16.0.0` | `"use cache"` is enabled with the Cache Components feature. |
| `v15.0.0` | `"use cache"` is introduced as an experimental feature.     |
