docs/01-app/03-api-reference/05-config/01-next-config-js/turbopackFileSystemCache.mdx, before:

---
title: Turbopack FileSystem Caching
nav_title: turbopackFileSystemCache
description: Learn how to enable FileSystem Caching for Turbopack builds
---

## Usage

Turbopack FileSystem Cache enables Turbopack to reduce work across `next dev` or `next build` commands. When enabled, Turbopack will save and restore data to the `.next` folder between builds, which can greatly speed up subsequent builds and dev sessions.

> **Good to know:** The FileSystem Cache feature is Beta and is still under development. Users adopting should expect some stability issues. We recommend first adopting it for development.

```ts filename="next.config.ts" switcher
import type { NextConfig } from 'next'

const nextConfig: NextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    // Enable filesystem caching for `next dev`
    turbopackFileSystemCacheForDev: true,
    // Enable filesystem caching for `next build`
    turbopackFileSystemCacheForBuild: true,
  },
}

export default nextConfig
```

```js filename="next.config.js" switcher
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    // Enable filesystem caching for `next dev`
    turbopackFileSystemCacheForDev: true,
    // Enable filesystem caching for `next build`
    turbopackFileSystemCacheForBuild: true,
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

## Version Changes

| Version   | Changes                                                        |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `v16.0.0` | Beta release with separate flags for build and dev             |
| `v15.5.0` | Persistent caching released as experimental on canary releases |

Commit message:

[turbopack] Enable filesystem cache by default for development (#85975)
Enable Turbopack filesystem cache for dev by default

Remove the canary block on the option for builds, but that remains false by default

docs/01-app/03-api-reference/05-config/01-next-config-js/turbopackFileSystemCache.mdx, after:

---
title: Turbopack FileSystem Caching
nav_title: turbopackFileSystemCache
description: Learn how to enable FileSystem Caching for Turbopack builds
---

## Usage

Turbopack FileSystem Cache enables Turbopack to reduce work across `next dev` or `next build` commands. When enabled, Turbopack will save and restore data to the `.next` folder between builds, which can greatly speed up subsequent builds and dev sessions.

> **Good to know:** The FileSystem Cache feature is considered stable for development and experimental for production builds

```ts filename="next.config.ts" switcher
import type { NextConfig } from 'next'

const nextConfig: NextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    // Enable filesystem caching for `next dev`
    turbopackFileSystemCacheForDev: true,
    // Enable filesystem caching for `next build`
    turbopackFileSystemCacheForBuild: true,
  },
}

export default nextConfig
```

```js filename="next.config.js" switcher
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    // Enable filesystem caching for `next dev`
    turbopackFileSystemCacheForDev: true,
    // Enable filesystem caching for `next build`
    turbopackFileSystemCacheForBuild: true,
  },
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

## Version Changes

| Version   | Changes                                                        |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `v16.1.0` | FileSystem caching is enabled by default for development       |
| `v16.0.0` | Beta release with separate flags for build and dev             |
| `v15.5.0` | Persistent caching released as experimental on canary releases |
