docs/01-app/03-api-reference/03-file-conventions/dynamic-routes.mdx, before:

---
title: Dynamic Route Segments
nav_title: Dynamic Segments
description: Dynamic Route Segments can be used to programmatically generate route segments from dynamic data.
related:
  title: Next Steps
  description: For more information on what to do next, we recommend the following sections
  links:
    - app/api-reference/functions/generate-static-params
---

When you don't know the exact route segment names ahead of time and want to create routes from dynamic data, you can use Dynamic Segments that are filled in at request time or prerendered at build time.

## Convention

A Dynamic Segment can be created by wrapping a folder's name in square brackets: `[folderName]`. For example, a blog could include the following route `app/blog/[slug]/page.js` where `[slug]` is the Dynamic Segment for blog posts.

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx" switcher
export default async function Page({
  params,
}: {
  params: Promise<{ slug: string }>
}) {
  const { slug } = await params
  return <div>My Post: {slug}</div>
}
```

```jsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.js" switcher
export default async function Page({ params }) {
  const { slug } = await params
  return <div>My Post: {slug}</div>
}
```

Dynamic Segments are passed as the `params` prop to [`layout`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/layout), [`page`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/page), [`route`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route), and [`generateMetadata`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-metadata#generatemetadata-function) functions.

| Route                     | Example URL | `params`        |
| ------------------------- | ----------- | --------------- |
| `app/blog/[slug]/page.js` | `/blog/a`   | `{ slug: 'a' }` |
| `app/blog/[slug]/page.js` | `/blog/b`   | `{ slug: 'b' }` |
| `app/blog/[slug]/page.js` | `/blog/c`   | `{ slug: 'c' }` |

### In Client Components

In a Client Component **page**, dynamic segments from props can be accessed using the [`use`](https://react.dev/reference/react/use) hook.

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx" switcher
'use client'
import { use } from 'react'

export default function BlogPostPage({
  params,
}: {
  params: Promise<{ slug: string }>
}) {
  const { slug } = use(params)

  return (
    <div>
      <p>{slug}</p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.js" switcher
'use client'
import { use } from 'react'
import { useParams } from 'next/navigation'

export default function BlogPostPage({ params }) {
  const { slug } = use(params)

  return (
    <div>
      <p>{slug}</p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Alternatively Client Components can use the [`useParams`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-params) hook to access the `params` anywhere in the Client Component tree.

### Catch-all Segments

Dynamic Segments can be extended to **catch-all** subsequent segments by adding an ellipsis inside the brackets `[...folderName]`.

For example, `app/shop/[...slug]/page.js` will match `/shop/clothes`, but also `/shop/clothes/tops`, `/shop/clothes/tops/t-shirts`, and so on.

| Route                        | Example URL   | `params`                    |
| ---------------------------- | ------------- | --------------------------- |
| `app/shop/[...slug]/page.js` | `/shop/a`     | `{ slug: ['a'] }`           |
| `app/shop/[...slug]/page.js` | `/shop/a/b`   | `{ slug: ['a', 'b'] }`      |
| `app/shop/[...slug]/page.js` | `/shop/a/b/c` | `{ slug: ['a', 'b', 'c'] }` |

### Optional Catch-all Segments

Catch-all Segments can be made **optional** by including the parameter in double square brackets: `[[...folderName]]`.

For example, `app/shop/[[...slug]]/page.js` will **also** match `/shop`, in addition to `/shop/clothes`, `/shop/clothes/tops`, `/shop/clothes/tops/t-shirts`.

The difference between **catch-all** and **optional catch-all** segments is that with optional, the route without the parameter is also matched (`/shop` in the example above).

| Route                          | Example URL   | `params`                    |
| ------------------------------ | ------------- | --------------------------- |
| `app/shop/[[...slug]]/page.js` | `/shop`       | `{ slug: undefined }`       |
| `app/shop/[[...slug]]/page.js` | `/shop/a`     | `{ slug: ['a'] }`           |
| `app/shop/[[...slug]]/page.js` | `/shop/a/b`   | `{ slug: ['a', 'b'] }`      |
| `app/shop/[[...slug]]/page.js` | `/shop/a/b/c` | `{ slug: ['a', 'b', 'c'] }` |

### TypeScript

When using TypeScript, you can add types for `params` depending on your configured route segment — use [`PageProps<'/route'>`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/page#page-props-helper), [`LayoutProps<'/route'>`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/layout#layout-props-helper), or [`RouteContext<'/route'>`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route#route-context-helper) to type `params` in `page`, `layout`, and `route` respectively.

Route `params` values are typed as `string`, `string[]`, or `undefined` (for optional catch-all segments), because their values aren't known until runtime. Users can enter any URL into the address bar, and these broad types help ensure that your application code handles all these possible cases.

| Route                               | `params` Type Definition                 |
| ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `app/blog/[slug]/page.js`           | `{ slug: string }`                       |
| `app/shop/[...slug]/page.js`        | `{ slug: string[] }`                     |
| `app/shop/[[...slug]]/page.js`      | `{ slug?: string[] }`                    |
| `app/[categoryId]/[itemId]/page.js` | `{ categoryId: string, itemId: string }` |

If you're working on a route where `params` can only have a fixed number of valid values, such as a `[locale]` param with a known set of language codes, you can use runtime validation to handle any invalid params a user may enter, and let the rest of your application work with the narrower type from your known set.

```tsx filename="/app/[locale]/page.tsx"
import { notFound } from 'next/navigation'
import type { Locale } from '@i18n/types'
import { isValidLocale } from '@i18n/utils'

function assertValidLocale(value: string): asserts value is Locale {
  if (!isValidLocale(value)) notFound()
}

export default async function Page(props: PageProps<'/[locale]'>) {
  const { locale } = await props.params // locale is typed as string
  assertValidLocale(locale)
  // locale is now typed as Locale
}
```

## Behavior

- Since the `params` prop is a promise. You must use `async`/`await` or React's use function to access the values.
  - In version 14 and earlier, `params` was a synchronous prop. To help with backwards compatibility, you can still access it synchronously in Next.js 15, but this behavior will be deprecated in the future.

### With Cache Components

When using [Cache Components](/docs/app/getting-started/cache-components) with dynamic routes, params are runtime data that require special handling. During prerendering, Next.js doesn't know which params users will request (like `/blog/hello-world` or `/blog/123`), so you need to provide fallback UI using `<Suspense>` boundaries.

You should use [`generateStaticParams`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-static-params) to prerender your most popular routes at build time (e.g., `/blog/1`, `/blog/2`, `/blog/3`). This serves two purposes: it validates your route doesn't incorrectly access dynamic APIs like `cookies()` or `headers()`, and it creates static HTML files for instant loading of those specific routes. Any other routes will render on-demand when requested at runtime.

> **Good to know**: You can check the `X-Nextjs-Cache` response header to verify your caching strategy. It will show `HIT` or `MISS` for disk-cached routes, and won't appear for memory-only caching.

The sections below show different patterns, from simplest (all runtime) to most optimized (prerendered samples, and caching). We recommend wrapping param access in Suspense boundaries to provide meaningful loading states.

#### Without `generateStaticParams`

The simplest approach. All params are runtime data.

- **Build time**: No validation, no prerendering
- **Prerendered params**: None
- **Runtime params**: Reading params requires Suspense fallback UI (build fails without it), shell renders on-demand, UI updates when content resolves
- **Caching**: Memory only (cleared on server restart)

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx"
import { Suspense } from 'react'

export default async function Page({ params }: PageProps<'/blog/[slug]'>) {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Blog Post</h1>
      <Suspense fallback={<div>Loading...</div>}>
        <Content slug={params.then((p) => p.slug)} />
      </Suspense>
    </div>
  )
}

async function Content({ slug }: { slug: Promise<string> }) {
  const resolvedSlug = await slug
  return <article>{/* Your content */}</article>
}
```

#### With `generateStaticParams`

Enables build-time validation and prerendering of popular routes, with memory caching for runtime params.

- **Build time**: Validates route, prerenders samples (e.g., `/1`, `/2`, `/3`)
- **Prerendered params**: Instant - served from disk
- **Runtime params**: Shell renders immediately, UI updates when content resolves
- **Caching**: Memory only (cleared on server restart)

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx"
import { Suspense } from 'react'

export async function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ slug: '1' }, { slug: '2' }, { slug: '3' }]
}

export default async function Page({ params }: PageProps<'/blog/[slug]'>) {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Blog Post</h1>
      <Suspense fallback={<div>Loading...</div>}>
        <Content slug={params.then((p) => p.slug)} />
      </Suspense>
    </div>
  )
}

async function Content({ slug }: { slug: Promise<string> }) {
  const resolvedSlug = await slug
  return <article>{/* Your content */}</article>
}
```

#### With `generateStaticParams` and `use cache` on page

Provides immediate UI for prerendered and previously visited routes, with disk persistence similar to ISR.

- **Build time**: Validates route, prerenders samples
- **Prerendered params**: Instant - served from disk
- **Runtime params**: Shell renders immediately, UI updates when content resolves
- **Caching**: Disk (persists across server restarts)

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx"
import { Suspense } from 'react'
import { cacheLife } from 'next/cache'

export async function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ slug: '1' }, { slug: '2' }, { slug: '3' }]
}

export default async function Page({ params }: PageProps<'/blog/[slug]'>) {
  'use cache'
  cacheLife('days')
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Blog Post</h1>
      <Suspense fallback={<div>Loading...</div>}>
        <Content slug={params.then((p) => p.slug)} />
      </Suspense>
    </div>
  )
}

async function Content({ slug }: { slug: Promise<string> }) {
  const resolvedSlug = await slug
  return <article>{/* Your content */}</article>
}
```

> **Good to know**:
>
> - Parent Suspense boundaries (like [`loading.tsx`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/loading) or a layout Suspense wrapping children) take precedence over page-level `use cache` for runtime params. While build-time params from `generateStaticParams` are still fully cached to disk, runtime params will use the parent fallback UI and stream with memory caching only - no disk files are created.

## Examples

### With `generateStaticParams`

The [`generateStaticParams`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-static-params) function can be used to [statically generate](/docs/app/guides/caching#static-rendering) routes at build time instead of on-demand at request time.

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx" switcher
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = await fetch('https://.../posts').then((res) => res.json())

  return posts.map((post) => ({
    slug: post.slug,
  }))
}
```

```jsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.js" switcher
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = await fetch('https://.../posts').then((res) => res.json())

  return posts.map((post) => ({
    slug: post.slug,
  }))
}
```

When using `fetch` inside the `generateStaticParams` function, the requests are [automatically deduplicated](/docs/app/guides/caching#request-memoization). This avoids multiple network calls for the same data Layouts, Pages, and other `generateStaticParams` functions, speeding up build time.

### Dynamic GET Route Handlers with `generateStaticParams`

`generateStaticParams` also works with dynamic [Route Handlers](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route) to statically generate API responses at build time:

```ts filename="app/api/posts/[id]/route.ts" switcher
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ id: '1' }, { id: '2' }, { id: '3' }]
}

export async function GET(
  request: Request,
  { params }: RouteContext<'/api/posts/[id]'>
) {
  const { id } = await params
  // Fetch and return post data
  return Response.json({ id, title: `Post ${id}` })
}
```

```js filename="app/api/posts/[id]/route.js" switcher
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ id: '1' }, { id: '2' }, { id: '3' }]
}

export async function GET(request, { params }) {
  const { id } = await params
  // Fetch and return post data
  return Response.json({ id, title: `Post ${id}` })
}
```

In this example, the route handlers for all blog post IDs (1, 2 and 3) returned by `generateStaticParams` will be statically generated at build time. Requests to other IDs will be handled dynamically at request time.

Commit message:

docs: gsp explicit static shell generation and prefetching

docs/01-app/03-api-reference/03-file-conventions/dynamic-routes.mdx, after:

---
title: Dynamic Route Segments
nav_title: Dynamic Segments
description: Dynamic Route Segments can be used to programmatically generate route segments from dynamic data.
related:
  title: Next Steps
  description: For more information on what to do next, we recommend the following sections
  links:
    - app/api-reference/functions/generate-static-params
---

When you don't know the exact route segment names ahead of time and want to create routes from dynamic data, you can use Dynamic Segments that are filled in at request time or prerendered at build time.

## Convention

A Dynamic Segment can be created by wrapping a folder's name in square brackets: `[folderName]`. For example, a blog could include the following route `app/blog/[slug]/page.js` where `[slug]` is the Dynamic Segment for blog posts.

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx" switcher
export default async function Page({
  params,
}: {
  params: Promise<{ slug: string }>
}) {
  const { slug } = await params
  return <div>My Post: {slug}</div>
}
```

```jsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.js" switcher
export default async function Page({ params }) {
  const { slug } = await params
  return <div>My Post: {slug}</div>
}
```

Dynamic Segments are passed as the `params` prop to [`layout`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/layout), [`page`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/page), [`route`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route), and [`generateMetadata`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-metadata#generatemetadata-function) functions.

| Route                     | Example URL | `params`        |
| ------------------------- | ----------- | --------------- |
| `app/blog/[slug]/page.js` | `/blog/a`   | `{ slug: 'a' }` |
| `app/blog/[slug]/page.js` | `/blog/b`   | `{ slug: 'b' }` |
| `app/blog/[slug]/page.js` | `/blog/c`   | `{ slug: 'c' }` |

### In Client Components

In a Client Component **page**, dynamic segments from props can be accessed using the [`use`](https://react.dev/reference/react/use) hook.

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx" switcher
'use client'
import { use } from 'react'

export default function BlogPostPage({
  params,
}: {
  params: Promise<{ slug: string }>
}) {
  const { slug } = use(params)

  return (
    <div>
      <p>{slug}</p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

```jsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.js" switcher
'use client'
import { use } from 'react'
import { useParams } from 'next/navigation'

export default function BlogPostPage({ params }) {
  const { slug } = use(params)

  return (
    <div>
      <p>{slug}</p>
    </div>
  )
}
```

Alternatively Client Components can use the [`useParams`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-params) hook to access the `params` anywhere in the Client Component tree.

### Catch-all Segments

Dynamic Segments can be extended to **catch-all** subsequent segments by adding an ellipsis inside the brackets `[...folderName]`.

For example, `app/shop/[...slug]/page.js` will match `/shop/clothes`, but also `/shop/clothes/tops`, `/shop/clothes/tops/t-shirts`, and so on.

| Route                        | Example URL   | `params`                    |
| ---------------------------- | ------------- | --------------------------- |
| `app/shop/[...slug]/page.js` | `/shop/a`     | `{ slug: ['a'] }`           |
| `app/shop/[...slug]/page.js` | `/shop/a/b`   | `{ slug: ['a', 'b'] }`      |
| `app/shop/[...slug]/page.js` | `/shop/a/b/c` | `{ slug: ['a', 'b', 'c'] }` |

### Optional Catch-all Segments

Catch-all Segments can be made **optional** by including the parameter in double square brackets: `[[...folderName]]`.

For example, `app/shop/[[...slug]]/page.js` will **also** match `/shop`, in addition to `/shop/clothes`, `/shop/clothes/tops`, `/shop/clothes/tops/t-shirts`.

The difference between **catch-all** and **optional catch-all** segments is that with optional, the route without the parameter is also matched (`/shop` in the example above).

| Route                          | Example URL   | `params`                    |
| ------------------------------ | ------------- | --------------------------- |
| `app/shop/[[...slug]]/page.js` | `/shop`       | `{ slug: undefined }`       |
| `app/shop/[[...slug]]/page.js` | `/shop/a`     | `{ slug: ['a'] }`           |
| `app/shop/[[...slug]]/page.js` | `/shop/a/b`   | `{ slug: ['a', 'b'] }`      |
| `app/shop/[[...slug]]/page.js` | `/shop/a/b/c` | `{ slug: ['a', 'b', 'c'] }` |

### TypeScript

When using TypeScript, you can add types for `params` depending on your configured route segment — use [`PageProps<'/route'>`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/page#page-props-helper), [`LayoutProps<'/route'>`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/layout#layout-props-helper), or [`RouteContext<'/route'>`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route#route-context-helper) to type `params` in `page`, `layout`, and `route` respectively.

Route `params` values are typed as `string`, `string[]`, or `undefined` (for optional catch-all segments), because their values aren't known until runtime. Users can enter any URL into the address bar, and these broad types help ensure that your application code handles all these possible cases.

| Route                               | `params` Type Definition                 |
| ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `app/blog/[slug]/page.js`           | `{ slug: string }`                       |
| `app/shop/[...slug]/page.js`        | `{ slug: string[] }`                     |
| `app/shop/[[...slug]]/page.js`      | `{ slug?: string[] }`                    |
| `app/[categoryId]/[itemId]/page.js` | `{ categoryId: string, itemId: string }` |

If you're working on a route where `params` can only have a fixed number of valid values, such as a `[locale]` param with a known set of language codes, you can use runtime validation to handle any invalid params a user may enter, and let the rest of your application work with the narrower type from your known set.

```tsx filename="/app/[locale]/page.tsx"
import { notFound } from 'next/navigation'
import type { Locale } from '@i18n/types'
import { isValidLocale } from '@i18n/utils'

function assertValidLocale(value: string): asserts value is Locale {
  if (!isValidLocale(value)) notFound()
}

export default async function Page(props: PageProps<'/[locale]'>) {
  const { locale } = await props.params // locale is typed as string
  assertValidLocale(locale)
  // locale is now typed as Locale
}
```

## Behavior

- Since the `params` prop is a promise. You must use `async`/`await` or React's use function to access the values.
  - In version 14 and earlier, `params` was a synchronous prop. To help with backwards compatibility, you can still access it synchronously in Next.js 15, but this behavior will be deprecated in the future.

### With Cache Components

When using [Cache Components](/docs/app/getting-started/cache-components) with dynamic routes, params are runtime data that require special handling. During prerendering, Next.js doesn't know which params users will request (like `/blog/hello-world` or `/blog/123`), so you need to provide fallback UI using `<Suspense>` boundaries.

You should use [`generateStaticParams`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-static-params) to prerender your most popular routes at build time (e.g., `/blog/1`, `/blog/2`, `/blog/3`). This serves two purposes: it validates your route doesn't incorrectly access dynamic APIs like `cookies()` or `headers()`, and it creates static HTML files for instant loading of those specific routes.

When you use `generateStaticParams`, Next.js also generates a static shell where params are treated as dynamic. When users request params not prerendered at build time, Next.js immediately sends this static shell (containing content like headers, navigation, and layout), while param-dependent content updates the UI when it's ready. This provides a better user experience than waiting for the entire page to render.

The sections below show different patterns, from simplest (all runtime) to most optimized (prerendered samples, and caching). We recommend wrapping param access in Suspense boundaries to provide meaningful loading states.

> **Good to know**: You can check the `X-Nextjs-Cache` response header to verify your caching strategy. It will show `HIT` or `MISS` for disk-cached routes, and won't appear for memory-only caching. Your hosting provider might replace this header with their own version.

#### Without `generateStaticParams`

The simplest approach. All params are runtime data.

- **Build time**: No validation, no prerendering
- **Prerendered params**: None
- **Runtime params**: Reading params requires Suspense fallback UI (build fails without it), shell renders on-demand, UI updates when content resolves
- **Caching**: Memory only (cleared on server restart)

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx"
import { Suspense } from 'react'

export default async function Page({ params }: PageProps<'/blog/[slug]'>) {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Blog Post</h1>
      <Suspense fallback={<div>Loading...</div>}>
        <Content slug={params.then((p) => p.slug)} />
      </Suspense>
    </div>
  )
}

async function Content({ slug }: { slug: Promise<string> }) {
  const resolvedSlug = await slug
  return <article>{/* Your content */}</article>
}
```

#### With `generateStaticParams`

Enables build-time validation and prerendering of popular routes. Next.js generates both the prerendered param pages and a static shell (where params are treated as dynamic). When a runtime param is encountered, Next.js uses this static shell to render immediately while streaming param-dependent content.

- **Build time**: Validates route, prerenders samples (e.g., `/1`, `/2`, `/3`), generates static shell
- **Prerendered params**: Instant - served from disk
- **Runtime params**: Static shell renders immediately, UI updates when param-dependent content resolves
- **Caching**: Memory only for runtime params (cleared on server restart)

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx"
import { Suspense } from 'react'

export async function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ slug: '1' }, { slug: '2' }, { slug: '3' }]
}

export default async function Page({ params }: PageProps<'/blog/[slug]'>) {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Blog Post</h1>
      <Suspense fallback={<div>Loading...</div>}>
        <Content slug={params.then((p) => p.slug)} />
      </Suspense>
    </div>
  )
}

async function Content({ slug }: { slug: Promise<string> }) {
  const resolvedSlug = await slug
  return <article>{/* Your content */}</article>
}
```

#### With `generateStaticParams` and `use cache` on page

Provides immediate UI for prerendered and previously visited routes, with disk persistence similar to ISR. When a runtime param is encountered, Next.js uses the static shell if it has visible content, or prerenders the full page (ISR-style) if the shell is empty.

- **Build time**: Validates route, prerenders samples, generates static shell
- **Prerendered params**: Instant - served from disk
- **Runtime params**: Static shell renders immediately (if it has content), then streams param-dependent content. Full page is cached to disk after first visit.
- **Caching**: Disk (persists across server restarts)

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx"
import { Suspense } from 'react'
import { cacheLife } from 'next/cache'

export async function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ slug: '1' }, { slug: '2' }, { slug: '3' }]
}

export default async function Page({ params }: PageProps<'/blog/[slug]'>) {
  'use cache'
  cacheLife('days')
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>Blog Post</h1>
      <Suspense fallback={<div>Loading...</div>}>
        <Content slug={params.then((p) => p.slug)} />
      </Suspense>
    </div>
  )
}

async function Content({ slug }: { slug: Promise<string> }) {
  const resolvedSlug = await slug
  return <article>{/* Your content */}</article>
}
```

> **Good to know**:
>
> - **Prefetching**: When navigating via `<Link>`, Next.js prefetches the static shell. For runtime params (not in `generateStaticParams`), any content that depends on the param value (such as `use cache` functions after `await params`) is not included in the prefetch and will be fetched during navigation, showing the Suspense fallback until ready.
> - **Parent Suspense boundaries** (like [`loading.tsx`](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/loading) or a layout Suspense wrapping children) take precedence over page-level `use cache` for runtime params. While build-time params from `generateStaticParams` are still fully cached to disk, runtime params will use the parent fallback UI and stream with memory caching only - no disk files are created.

## Examples

### With `generateStaticParams`

The [`generateStaticParams`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-static-params) function can be used to [statically generate](/docs/app/guides/caching#static-rendering) routes at build time instead of on-demand at request time.

```tsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.tsx" switcher
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = await fetch('https://.../posts').then((res) => res.json())

  return posts.map((post) => ({
    slug: post.slug,
  }))
}
```

```jsx filename="app/blog/[slug]/page.js" switcher
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  const posts = await fetch('https://.../posts').then((res) => res.json())

  return posts.map((post) => ({
    slug: post.slug,
  }))
}
```

When using `fetch` inside the `generateStaticParams` function, the requests are [automatically deduplicated](/docs/app/guides/caching#request-memoization). This avoids multiple network calls for the same data Layouts, Pages, and other `generateStaticParams` functions, speeding up build time.

### Dynamic GET Route Handlers with `generateStaticParams`

`generateStaticParams` also works with dynamic [Route Handlers](/docs/app/api-reference/file-conventions/route) to statically generate API responses at build time:

```ts filename="app/api/posts/[id]/route.ts" switcher
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ id: '1' }, { id: '2' }, { id: '3' }]
}

export async function GET(
  request: Request,
  { params }: RouteContext<'/api/posts/[id]'>
) {
  const { id } = await params
  // Fetch and return post data
  return Response.json({ id, title: `Post ${id}` })
}
```

```js filename="app/api/posts/[id]/route.js" switcher
export async function generateStaticParams() {
  return [{ id: '1' }, { id: '2' }, { id: '3' }]
}

export async function GET(request, { params }) {
  const { id } = await params
  // Fetch and return post data
  return Response.json({ id, title: `Post ${id}` })
}
```

In this example, the route handlers for all blog post IDs (1, 2 and 3) returned by `generateStaticParams` will be statically generated at build time. Requests to other IDs will be handled dynamically at request time.
